#labels Featured
A [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] plugin to control the Denon AVP/POA and networked AVRs from the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] and 
SqueezeBox Classic, Receiver, Radio and Touch.

= Introduction =
This Logitech Media Server plugin will turn on and off a networked Denon amplifier/receiver when the Squeezebox is turned on/off or a song is played. The plugin will optionally set one of the Quick Select modes, and set the volume of the Squeezebox to match the amplifier volume. The user can also set a optional on or off delay timer and set the maximum volume level they wish the amplifier to be set to when controlling the Squeezebox. The user can modify the Denon audio settings during playback when using the iPeng application on an iTouch device.

The plugin uses the Denon serial protocol over a wireless or wired network and therefore a network connection between the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] server and the Denon amplifier must be available. 

The plugin has only been tested with the Denon AVP-A1HD and the Squeezebox Receiver and Touch but it should work with any Denon amplifier/receiver that supports the Denon serial protocol over a network and other Squeezebox's as well. The plugin has also been tested with the Apple iOS devices (Touch, iPhone and iPad) using the iPeng applications. It should also work with Logitechs smart phone controllers.

= Details =
 The plugin supports the following features:

V 1.0
  * Turns the Denon amplifier on when the user turns on a Squeezebox or plays a song
  * Puts the Denon amplifier in standby when the user turns the Squeezebox off
  * Changes the volume of the Denon amplifier when the user changes the Squeezebox volume
  * Sets the Squeezebox volume to the default setting of the Denon amplifier when turned on
  * Optionally sets one of the three Denon Quick Select modes when turned on
  * The user specifies the maximum volume the amplifier can be set to
  * The user can pick an optional on and/or off delay timer
  * The plugin can be enabled/disabled without restarting the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] after the initial installation
V 1.1
  * The user can select between Main, Zone 2 and Zone 3
  * Optionally the plugin can set the Squeezebox volume from the amplifier volume at track changes
V 1.2
  * Minor performance support when using multiple synched players
V 1.3
  * Minor performance improvements
V 1.4
  * Repo file now supports SBS 7.4
V 1.5
  * Added the ability to control the DENON audio settings using the iPeng application during playback.
V 1.6
  * Supports 100% volume setting on players with iPeng 1.2.5 and greater.  Volume control has been changed to be less linear with more loudness in the lower settings.
V1.7
  * Supports .5 settings on volume adjustment to Denon
V1.8
  * Supports [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server]
  * Enhancements to the performance of volume settings and receiver options
V 1.9
  * Fixes to the label file