#labels Featured,usage
This page describes how to use the [http://code.google.com/p/denonavpcontrol/ Denon AVP/AVR Control] plugin for the [http://www.slimdevices.com/pi_features.html Squeezebox Server].  Optionally the plugin provides a very rich user experience when combined with the native iTouch application, [http://penguinlovesmusic.de/ iPeng].
=Using the Plugin=
First you must install the plugin as described in the [http://code.google.com/p/denonavpcontrol/wiki/InstallationInstructions installation] wiki page.  Secondly if using the [http://penguinlovesmusic.de/ iPeng] application you must install that application on your iTouch device too.

Once the plugin (and [http://penguinlovesmusic.de/ iPeng]) is installed, it is fairly straight forward to use, and in many cases there is nothing that you need to be aware of during use. The application is completely transparent with the exception of the optional audio settings adjustments during playback.
==Normal Operation==
Once the plugin has been installed and configured it is very simple and transparent to use.  Make sure your DENON AVP/AVR is in Standby mode and connected to the network (wired or wirelessly).  
===Turning On the Systems===
To turn on the AVP/AVR you simply turn on your Squeezebox either by using the remote or the web GUI.  You may also optionally press the play button if there is currently a track in your playlist.  This will cause the Squeezebox to turn on and play the track.  This in turn will turn on the DENON AVP/AVR.  If you have set up one of the Quick Select options (highly recommended) the plugin will set your DENON AVP/AVR to the correct input and to all your desired audio settings.
===Playing a Track===
To play a track simply use your Squeezebox remote or the Squeezebox Server Web GUI as you would normally.  There is no change to this process while using the plugin.  Pausing a track will not affect your DENON AVP/AVR and it will remain connected and on.
===Changing the Volume===
If you change the volume using the Squeezebox remote or the Squeezebox Server Web GUI the plugin will capture your changes and automatically send these to the DENON AVP/AVR.  There is a about a half second delay between the Squeezebox and the DENON AVP/AVR built into the plugin to keep the Squeezebox from making unessessary adjustsments to the DENON.

Optionally if you have selected the ability for the DENON AVP/AVR to send new volume changes the user might have made, this will occur at every track change.
===Turing Off the Systems===
When you are done with the Squeezebox and the DENON AVP/AVR simply use your Squeezebox remote or the Squeezebox Server Web GUI and turn off the player. The DENON AVP/AVR will automatically go into Standby mode.
=Operation With the Native iPeng Application and an iTouch Device==
For an advanced user experience with the Squeezebox I highly recommend the native[http://penguinlovesmusic.de/ iPeng] application and an iTouch device.  This section will describe how to use the DenonAvpControl plugin with the [http://penguinlovesmusic.de/ iPeng] application.
===Turning on the Systems===
There is no change in how you would use the DenonAvpControl plugin with [http://penguinlovesmusic.de/ iPeng] than you would with the Squeezebox natively.  Simply select the player that the plugin is configured for and press the Squeezebox player icon at the bottom of the Now Playing screen.