#labels Configure,Settings,Installation,Featured
This page describes how to install and configure the [https://github.com/aesculus/denonavpcontrol Denon AVP/AVR Control] plugin for the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server].
=Setting Up the Squeezebox Player=
This plugin assumes that your Squeezebox player is connected to the AVP/AVR via a digital connection to one of the Denon audio ports and that you have confirmed that audio can be heard from the player through the Denon to your speakers.

=Configuring the Denon=
To configure the Denon AVP/AVR to work with the plugin you must:

  * Set a fixed IP Address in the Denon AVP/AVR
  * Turn Standby Mode Power Saving to OFF
  * Have your Denon in Standby mode and not Off

=Installing the Plugin=
==For SqueezeCenter 7.3+ or [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] 7.7 and Greater==
To install the plugin use the Advanced features in the Settings menu and the enter the value of this link into the plugin extension:
https://github.com/aesculus/denonavpcontrol/blob/master/repo.xml
==For [http://www.slimdevices.com/pi_features.html SqueezeCenter] 7.0 - 7.2==
To install the plugin you download the zip file from the Downloads page.  Unzip the file preserving the entire directory structure into the plugins directory of your [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] server.  Restart the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] server for the plugin to be recognized.

To remove the plugin from the server uncheck the [https://github.com/aesculus/denonavpcontrol Denon AVP/AVR Control] plugin from the list of Plugins in the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] web control.

See the [http://www.slimdevices.com/ SlimDevices] website for more information on how to install plugins.

=Configuring the Plugin=
The [https://github.com/aesculus/denonavpcontrol Denon AVP/AVR Control] plugin is completely configured from the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] Web GUI.  There is nothing to be done on the Squeezebox. The settings are done via the server web application.

Once the plugin is installed and the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] has been restarted, you can configure the plugin for your Squeezebox.  Note that you can have as many instances of the plugin as you have Squeezeboxes.  The settings and control of the plugin are specific to each Squeezebox.  However it is suggested that you do not have any more than one Squeezebox control a given AVP/AVR zone.  You could though have multiple Denon amplifiers in your system, all controlled separately by a different Squeezebox and [https://github.com/aesculus/denonavpcontrol Denon AVP/AVR Control] plugin.  Or you could have three Squeezeboxes all controlling one Denon AVP/AVR when used in a multi-zone setting.  The audio menu features of the plugin are only valid for the Main zone of the Denon AVP/AVR.

To configure the plugin:

  * Restart the LMS after you have installed the plugin
  * Access the [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] Web GUI.
  * Choose Settings and the player you wish to configure
  * Select the plugins item (tab)
  * Choose *Denon AVP/AVR Control*

==Enable Plugin==
You can toggle the use of the plugin on/off without having to remove it from the[http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server].  Check the box and the plugin will be enabled. Unchecking the box and the plugin will ignore any changes made while using the Squeezebox.

==IP Address of Denon AVP/AVR==
You must enter the IP address (less the "http://") of your AVP/AVR (for example *127.0.0.1*).  Note for this plugin to work you will need to have a fixed IP address set in your Denon.  You will also need to configure the Denon networking to *turn off Power Saver* mode in the network settings.  Failure to do either of these will result in the plugin not being able to communicate with your Denon amplifier.  See the Denon owners manual for instructions on making these settings.

==Delay to Turn AVP/AVR On==
Enter the number of seconds you want to wait for after the Squeezebox is turned on before the AVP/AVR is activated.  If you change the state (ie turn it off) within this period, the plugin will not send the command to the amplifier and it will be essentially cancelled.  The default is zero seconds.

==Delay to put AVP/AVR in Standby==
Enter the number of seconds you want to wait for after the Squeezebox is turned off before the AVP/AVR is put into standby.  If you change the state (ie turn it on) within this period, the plugin will not send the command to the amplifier and it will be essentially cancelled.  The default is zero seconds.

==Delaty for Quick Select==
Enter the number of seconds that you want the plugin to wait after powering on the AVP/AVR if a Quick Select has been chosen.

==Quick Select Option==
Select which Quick Select option you would like the AVP to switch to when turning on the Squeezebox from the pull-down.  Choosing *Disabled* means the plugin will ignore this feature.  Note you must have preconfigured your Denon amplifier for the selected Quick Select option for this to be effective.  After four seconds from a Power On command the plugin will request the amplifier to select one of the three Quick Select options, if configured.

==Zone Option==
Select the Denon zone you wish the plugin to control.  You may choose between Main, Zone 2 and Zone 3.  The plugin will default to Main.  Note that the Quick Select option will only work on the Main zone.

==Maximum Volume of AVP/AVR==
Enter the maximum volume you want the plugin to adjust the AVP/AVR too when making volume adjustments. 100% volume at the Squeezebox will be limited to this value on the AVP/AVR. It is suggested that you limit the volume to no more than -10.  The Squeezebox volume adjustments will vary from -80 on the Denon to whatever maximum setting you have chosen here.  What is displayed on the Squeezebox will be a ratio of this range.  For example if you set the *Maximum Volume of AVP/AVR* to 0, a 50% setting of the Squeezebox volume would result in the Denon AVP/AVR being set to -40. 

==Enable Synching the Volume==
If you wish to have the Denon AVP/AVR volume adjust the Squeezebox volume at each track change, enable this checkbox. This will allow volume changes on the Denon to change the Squeezebox volume indicator. Only available for the Main zone.  The default is not to synch the volume except as noted below.  If you don't plan on adjusting the amplifier volume independant of using the Squeezebox adjustment, this will just cause extra commands to be processed by the Denon with no change to the volume indicator of the Squeezebox.

===Additional Comments on Volume Settings===
*Note: Currently on some installations of [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server] setting the system to 100% volume will cause iPeng not to be able to change the volume. Version 1.2 and 1.21 of iPeng suppress the use of the volume control when the Squeeze Server player volume setting is at 100%. Version 1.2.5 of iPeng resolves this problem.  Unless iPeng version 1.2.5 or later is installed on your system you should not set the player audio at 100% if you plan to use iPeng.*

*If you are using a Touch as your player device you will need to make a modification to enable 100% volume output.  Refer to this forum item for more information: http://forums.slimdevices.com/showthread.php?t=77837 The current version of LMS 7.7.x eliminates the ability to use this feature if you set the player to output 100% Volume from the menu. You must follow the instructions on the forum entry to patch your player to allow for 100% volume without using the menu.*

Note that when the amplifier is first started, after about 5 seconds the plugin will match the Squeezebox volume to what is currently set on the AVP/AVR.  The AVP/AVR will not have its volume changed until you adjust it via the Squeezebox or [http://www.mysqueezebox.com/download Logitech Media Server].  It is suggested that you set the *Volume Control* option of the Squeezebox Audio Settings to *Output level is fixed at 100%*.  This will allow all of your volume settings for the Squeezebox that is configured for this plugin to go directly to the Denon AVP/AVR.  This will also eliminate the Squeezebox from altering your audio signal with its DACs, thus resulting in a purer audio signal.

==Enable Audio Settings Menus==
If you wish to be able to change various audio settings on the DENON AVP/AVR during playback such as surround mode, room equilizer, dynamic equalizer, restorer and dynamic volume, enable this checkbox.  This feature will require a Squeezebox Controller on the native[http://penguinlovesmusic.de/ iPeng 1.21] application running on a iPhone or iPod Touch device.
